[WIP] Terraform Docs for TF policy (#2690)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-policy/v0.1.x (beta)/docs/policy/reference/policy/resource-policy.mdx

---
page_title: `resource_policy`
description: >-
  Reference for the `resource_policy {}` block used to write policies for Terraform resources.
---

# `resource_policy`

> The `resource_policy` block defines policies for Terraform resources. The first label of the block identifies the resource type, such as `aws_instance`, `google_compute_instance`, or `azurerm_windows_virtual_machine`, and the second label is the policy name. You can use a wildcard (*) for all or part of the resource name to apply a policy to every resource defined in the configuration, or every resource starting with a given prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `resource_policy` block defines policies for infrastructure resources managed by Terraform. 
```
Right? We don't mean Terraform platform resources, such as workspaces, correct?

@include "partials/beta.mdx"

## Configuration model

```hcl
resource_policy "<resource_type>" "<policy_name>" {
  operation         = "<operation>"
  enforcement_level = "<level>"
  filter            = <boolean_expression>

  locals {
    name = <value>
  }

  enforce {
    condition     = <boolean_expression>
    error_message = "<message>"
    info_message  = "<message>"
  }
}
```

## Complete configuration example

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_instance" "testing" {
  operation         = ["create", "update"]
  enforcement_level = "mandatory"
  filter            = attrs.tags.env == "testing"
  
  enforce {
    condition     = attrs.instance_type == "t3.micro"
    error_message = "Only t3.micro instances are allowed in testing environments. Please consider changing the instance_type to t3.micro."
  }
  
  enforce {
    condition     = attrs.monitoring == true
    error_message = "Monitoring must be enabled for all instances."
  }
}
```

## Specification

> 

Reviewer: Look at the specification for other configuration reference pages: https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/block/tfquery/list#specification

### Labels

| Label | Required | Description |
|-------|----------|-------------|
| First label | Yes | The resource type (For example: `aws_instance`, `google_compute_instance`). Use `*` to match all resources, or `aws_*` to match all AWS resources. |

> | Second label | Yes | A unique name for this policy within the policy file. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `resource_policy "<TYPE>" "<LABEL>"`

You must set the following arguments for each `resource_policy` block: 

- `TYPE`: Specifies the provider resource type, such as `aws_instance`, `google_compute_instance`, or `azurerm_windows_virtual_machine`. You can use the `*` wildcard for all or part of the resource name to apply a policy to every resource defined in the configuration or every resource starting with a given prefix.
- `LABEL`:  Specifies a unique name for this policy within the policy file. 
```

### Arguments

Resource policy blocks support the following arguments.

| Argument | Required | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `operation` | No | String or List of Strings | `["create", "update"]` | The operations during which to enforce this policy. Valid values: `"create"`, `"update"`, `"delete"`. |

> | `enforcement_level` | No | String | `"advisory"` | The enforcement level for the policy. Valid values: `"advisory"`, `"mandatory"`, `"mandatory-overridable"`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `enforcement_level` | No | String | `"advisory"` | The enforcement level for the policy. Valid values: `"advisory"`, `"mandatory"`, `"mandatory_overridable"`. |
```

> | `filter` | No | Boolean expression | - | Filter which resources the policy applies to based on their attributes. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `operation` 

Specifies the Terraform operation during which to enforce this policy. You can configure the policy to evaluate during more than one operation. You can specify `"create"`. `"update"`. or  `"delete"` .

- Data type: Single string or list of strings 
- Default: None

### `enforcement_level` 

Specifies the enforcement level for the policy. You can specify one of the following values:

- `"advisory"`: Allows the operation to continue but prints a warning when if the conditions of the policy aren't met.
- `"mandatory"`: Stops the operation if the conditions of the policy aren't met.
- `"mandatory_overridable"`: Stops the operation if the conditions of the policy aren't met, but allows a user with appropriate permissions to override the policy and continue. 

Refer to []() for more information about enforcement levels. 

- Data type: String
- Default: None

### `filter` 

Specifies a Boolean expression to filter which resources the policy applies to based on their attributes. Refer to [Attributes](#attributes) for information about how to access resource attributes. 
```
I'm not sure the best way to integrate the content in the "Attributes" section. I think in the future we can add a section to the topic on writing policies to explain _how_ to access attributes using the keywords. I think this is the best place to explain what they are.

| update    | Target State               | Current State                    |
| delete    | Target State (all resource attributes are null) | Current State |

Each Terraform provider defines the attributes available for each resource it supports. Refer to the provider documentation for a list of supported attributes.

#### `meta` object attributes

The following meta-arguments are available in `resource_policy` blocks.

| Name | Description | Type | Example |
|------|-------------|------|---------|
| `meta.module_path` | The module path the resource belongs to. | String | `"."`, `"my-module"` |
| `meta.operation` | The operation being performed. | String | `"create"`, `"update"`, `"destroy"` |
| `meta.provider_type` | The name of the provider of the resource. | String | `"aws"`, `"azurerm"` |
| `meta.resource_type` | The type of the resource. This will be the first label of the matching resource block. | String | `"aws_s3_bucket"`, `"azurerm_managed_disk"` |

### The `enforce {}` block

Each `resource_policy {}` block must contain one or more `enforce {}` blocks that define conditions that must evaluate to `true` for the policy to pass.

#### Arguments

> Enforce blocks support the following arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `enforce`

The `enforce` block defines conditions that must evaluate to `true` for the policy to pass. Each `resource_policy {}` block must contain at least one `enforce` block.

Enforce block supports the following arguments:
```

| Argument | Required | Type | Description |
|----------|----------|------|-------------|
| `condition` | Yes | Boolean expression | A boolean expression that must evaluate to `true` for the policy to pass. |
| `error_message` | Yes | String | The error message to display when the condition evaluates to `false`. |
| `info_message` | No | String | An informational message to display regardless of whether the policy passes or fails. |

> You can include one or more `enforce {}` blocks in each policy block. If any of the enforce blocks' conditions fail during evaluation, then Terraform policy will fail the policy and return the corresponding error messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can declare more than one `enforce` block in each `resource_policy` block. If a condition in any `enforce` block fails during evaluation, then Terraform policy fails the entire policy and returns the corresponding error messages.
```

### The `locals {}` block

> Each `resource_policy {}` block may contain `locals {}` blocks that define values that are local to the policy. These local values override `locals {}` blocks defined at the top level of the policy file. Refer to [The `locals {}` block](/terraform/policy/reference/policy/locals) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `locals`

Defines values that are local to the policy. You can only define one `locals` block per `resource_policy` block. The `locals` block nested in a `resource_block` overrides `locals` blocks defined in the root of the policy file.Refer to the root-level [`locals` block reference](/terraform/policy/reference/policy/locals) for more information.

- Data type: Block
- Default: None
```

## Examples

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show how to write configuration for common use cases.
```
Per the [style guide](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/top-12.md#do-not-place-the-same-type-of-content-elements-next-to-each-other)

### Enforce instance type in testing environment

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_instance" "testing" {
  operation         = ["create", "update"]
  enforcement_level = "mandatory"
  filter            = attrs.tags.env == "testing"
  
  enforce {
    condition     = attrs.instance_type == "t3.micro"
    error_message = "Only t3.micro instances are allowed in testing environments."
  }
}
```

This example targets `aws_instance` resources during create and update operations, with a mandatory enforcement level. Instead of matching all AWS instances, this policy filters AWS instance resources by the value of their `tags.env` attribute.

### Enforce encryption for EBS volumes

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_ebs_volume" "encryption_required" {
  enforcement_level = "mandatory"

  enforce {
    condition     = attrs.encrypted == true
    error_message = "All EBS volumes must be encrypted."
  }
}
```

### Use wildcard to match multiple resource types

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example uses a wildcard to apply the policy to all AWS resources.

```
Per the [style guide](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/top-12.md#organize-content-so-that-it-flows-in-a-single-direction-from-beginning-to-end)

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_*" "require_tags" {

>   enforcement_level = "mandatory-overridable"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  enforcement_level = "mandatory_overridable"
```

  enforce {
    condition     = attrs.tags != null && core::length(core::keys(attrs.tags)) > 0
    error_message = "All AWS resources must have at least one tag."
  }
}
```

> This example uses a wildcard to apply the policy to all AWS resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
